# chaintech-task-management-system
- To-Do List Application built with Node.js, Express, and PostgreSQL. This application allows users to create, manage, and track their tasks efficiently.

## Installation

0. Requirements:
- Node.js
- pnpm
- PostgreSQL database (if using docker, run `docker-compose.yml` file by `docker compose up -d`)

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ManjeetSingh-02/chaintech-task-management-system.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd chaintech-task-management-system
```

3. Install dependencies
```bash
pnpm install
```

4. Create a `.env` file in root
```env
ORIGIN_URL=http://localhost:5173
PORT=3000
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/task_management_system
NODE_ENV=development
COOKIE_SECRET=minimum_of_32_char_cookie_secret
```

5. Generate Prisma client
- Go to `src/core/database/prisma.ts` and comment out the entire code in `prisma.ts`
- Run the generate command and uncomment the entire code in `prisma.ts`
```bash
pnpm prisma generate
```

6. Run the application
```bash
pnpm dev
```

## Code Structure
- `prisma/`: Contains the Prisma schema and migration files.
  - `schema.prisma`: Defines the database schema and models.
  - `migrations/`: Contains the migration files generated by Prisma.
- `src/`: Contains the source code of the application.
  - `app/`: Contains the main application logic.
  - `core/`: Contains core functionalities such as database connection, logger, loader, constants and many more.
  - `modules/`: Contains the different modules of the application, such as healthcheck and task management.
- `.gitignore`: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Git.
- `.npmrc`: Configuration file for pnpm.
- `.prettierignore`: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by Prettier.
- `.prettierrc`: Prettier configuration file.
- `docker-compose.yml`: Docker configuration file for setting up the PostgreSQL database.
- `eslint.config.ts`: ESLint configuration file.
- `package.json`: Contains the project dependencies and scripts.
- `pnpm-lock.yaml`: Lock file for pnpm dependencies.
- `postman_collection.json`: Postman collection file for API testing.
- `prisma.config.ts`: Prisma configuration file.
- `README.md`: This file, containing the project overview and instructions.
- `tsconfig.json`: TypeScript configuration file.

## API Documentation
- A `postman_collection.json` file is included in the repository root which contains all the API endpoints and their details.
- You can import this collection into Postman to test the API endpoints.